# Enhancement One: Software Design and Engineering 
  *My artifact is a Data Collection System designed to integrate with my Companies current data recording system. The artifact is comprised of an Android application, an apache webserver, and a machine learning program. The goal of this artifact is to enable users to seamlessly scan and record accurate job times from their phone. In addition, it provides the user with the job description, and quotes labor times. I created this artifact about one week before beginning the course, so it was still in its infancy when I planned these enhancements.\
  \
 *I chose this artifact because it displays my abilities to create a real-world application that integrates with current systems. This multilayered system displays my ability to acquire business requirements from stakeholders and then design a solution to meet their needs. It also displays my ability to engineer the best solution given available resources. For example, I was not allowed to have direct access to the main database (because of sensitive information such as finances), yet I still persevered and engineered a solution that is not only practical, but the best solution given the circumstances. Furthermore, the barcode scanner that I integrated to scan documents displays my ability to understand and implement a third-party API created by companies, such as Google in this case. Overall, the artifact showcases my abilities to create a user friendly and easy to use application that accurately stores and interprets valuable business information.\
  \
  *When I selected this artifact, the overall software design was a mess. This was because I needed to quickly develop an example for my boss, to show that I could create an app. After getting his approval to work on it in my spare time, I was able to rapidly develop it, the using the software design documents I developed early on (pseudocode and flowcharts).\
  \
 *The knowledge I gained implementing the enhancements is invaluable. I have had some experience in the past developing Android applications and other programs. However, none of that compared to creating an application for a real-world system. I learned skills such as interacting with stakeholders to gather business requirements and creating a design solution to meet those requirements. However, the most valuable knowledge gained was used to enhance my own problem-solving skills. Not only did I have to come up with design solutions to the business requirements, but I also had to solve many problems when roadblocks were hit. This was the main challenge I faced with respect to Software Engineering/Design. When this occurred, I would not only have to find a way to solve the problem, but also find the best solution that would fit into my design plans. These challenges included, not being able to render JavaScript inside an android app, having to account for lag time between servers and still provide a user-friendly experience, and having to keep multiple databases synchronized. When receiving feedback from my Professor, I always made sure to listen and follow his suggestions. I also had a small number of co-workers look at the app to let me know that certain issues would bother them, like waiting 20 seconds to punch into a job. As a result of this feedback, the software product was much more user-friendly and capable.
