-># Enhancement Two: Algorithms and Data Stuctures<-

  As with Enhancement One, my artifact is a Data Collection System that is implemented with an Android application, a server-side program, and a machine learning program. The goal of this artifact is to enable users to seamlessly scan and record accurate job times from their phone. In addition, it provides the user with the job description and quotes labor times. I created this artifact about one week before beginning the course, so it was still in its infancy when I planned these enhancements.\
  \
  I chose this artifact because it displays my abilities to create a real-world application that utilizes algorithms and data structures to solve specific problems the best way possible. The Android application and server-side program both showcases my ability to develop algorithms to parse valuable data out of the manufacturing descriptions and html pages. In addition, it allows me to showcase my ability to take that valuable data and transform it into a form understandable for machine learning algorithms. In that regard, I had to take unformatted data from an mysql database, encoded the features as integers and implement a k-nearest neighbor machine learning algorithm. \
  \
  One of the first things I discovered in this endeavor was the usefulness of pseudocode. Having previously defined my algorithms with it, implementing them became much easier and faster. Previously, I had little experience using regex expressions to parse data.  However, now I can confidently use the libraries in both Java and Python. In addition, one of the most important skills I have learned throughout the development process is how to develop efficient and accurate algorithms for a real-world problem. It is one thing to practice through tutorials, and it is another to apply your knowledge to a live data set. One of the main challenges I faced in creating and enhancing these algorithms was finding the useful data in the massive amount of html. It was also challenging to figure out how to efficiently find and store manufacturing part features without using an excessive amount of if statements and other conditions. As for feedback, I made sure to listen and incorporate any feedback my Professor gave me. Also, some coworkers did use a prototype application and gave constructive criticism. Nothing they pointed out was an issue with the algorithms or data structures. 
