# Enhancement Three: Databases 
#### The following links go to the repositories referenced.
##### [Android Application](https://github.com/diamondadam/CustomTool)
##### [Server File](https://github.com/diamondadam/DataCollectionServer)
##### [Data Analysis Program](https://github.com/diamondadam/DataAnalysis)

As with Enhancement One and Two, my artifact again is a Data Collection System, that is implemented with an Android application, a server-side program, and a machine learning program. The goal of this artifact is to enable users to seamlessly scan and record accurate job times from their phone. In addition, it provides the user with the job description, and quotes labor times. I created this artifact about one week before beginning the course, so it was still in its infancy when I planned these enhancements.<br/>
  <br/>
I chose this artifact because it displays my abilities to create a real-world application that integrates with a company’s database and information systems. The Android application allowed me to showcase my abilities to use an SQLite database and the server-side program utilized a standard MySQL database with a MariaDB server. The SQLite Database stored dynamic data for user viewing purposes while the standard MySQL database stored manufacturing part descriptions and labor times. Using this data, I was able to use a machine learning algorithm(k-nearest neighbors) to make a model for future quoting. As you can imagine, the value of being able to get more accurate quotes to customers is incredibly important for both a manufacturer's standpoint and the customers. All these components combine to display my abilities to not only create, but integrate with predefined systems to analyze data and produce valuable information from it.<br/>
  <br/>
  	While I have had experience using databases, this was the first time I had complete control over design. This included making the datatypes needed and choosing how to then use them for further analysis. One of the most important things I had learned creating this enhancement was how to apply data, no matter the type, to solve a problem. The only challenge I faced was getting the data formatted to use in machine learning algorithms. This was an issue because the features were originally stored as String datatypes and the machine learning function could not process that, instead I had to encode the Strings as integer values. Ultimately, I was successful and developed two solid databases and an analysis program that could provide valuable business information to my employer. As for feedback, I made sure to incorporate any given to me by my professor.
