# Professional Self Assessment

When I first began the Computer Science program at Southern New Hampshire University I didn’t know anything about Computer Science or Software Engineering aside from how to print “Hello World” in Java. As I progressed through the coursework in the program, I learned information from many different fields such as Sociology, History, and Physics and, of course, Computer Science. More importantly, I learned how all of these fields interact and how the knowledge I learned from each can be used as a tool for the others. The Computer Science courses were the most impactful of these courses, though, and greatly increased my proficiency in Software Engineering. Completing these courses granted me knowledge about the hardware of computers, the various operating systems, the languages that program them, and how to design programs.<br/>
  <br/>
In courses, such as “Intro to Linux Operating Sys” and “Operating Environments”, I was taught about how the various operating systems interact with the hardware, programs, and users. I also learned how to use Linux Operating Systems in general which became important in implementing my Capstone ePortfolio server on a Raspberry Pi and for my final project in Emerging Sys Arch & Tech. In this, I implemented Grove Pi hardware components to develop a weather reporting IoT device. Having an understanding of various operating systems and how to use them not only gives me an additional skillset, but also grants me a deeper understanding of software in general and how a program interacts with a machine.<br/>
   <br/>
“Collaboration and Team Project” courses taught me how to communicate with a team to come up with software solutions. It is important to note that not all members of a team are software developers.  There are also project managers and other members in a company that may be a stakeholder, and ergo, part of the development process and team. These skills have helped me throughout my courses. As I have had to interact with classmates in the “Collaboration and Team Project” course to enhance a software application, and as I have had to interact with my boss and coworkers in development of my Capstone ePortfolio artifact. While they were not developers, by using a github repository my boss was able to view all of my work, and through iterative testing my coworkers were able to communicate to me what worked and what did not.<br/>
  <br/>
“Software Development Lifecycle” taught me about the business side of Software Development and how to understand and solve business requirements pertaining to a project. I also learned of the various development models such as Agile and their various strengths and weaknesses. These skills became extremely useful in my “Emerging Sys Arch & Tech” and “Mobile Architect & Programming” courses. This is where the final projects had strict business requirements and stakeholder documents to interpret as I mentioned in “Emerging Sys Arch & Tech”. I implemented Grove Pi hardware components to develop a weather reporting IoT device, whereas in “Mobile Architect & Programming” I developed an ePortfolio application on Android that integrated calendar and map functions to easily schedule interviews and get direction to them. Aside from these projects, the skills learned greatly impacted my Capstone ePortfolio project, as I had to directly interact with stakeholders to acquire the business requirements and then continue interactions as I implemented solutions.<br/>
  <br/>
During the “Software Development Lifecycle” and my “Object Orient Analysis/Design” courses I was taught how to engineer software to meet business requirements. Furthermore, I learned how to utilize various development techniques and tools such as pseudocode, class diagrams, and flowcharts to aid in development of the design and programming of the software. In the “Mobile Architect & Programming” final project the knowledge and techniques learned allowed me to start and finish my app development quickly and efficiently. I used a wireframe model to sketch out the screens and pseudocode, class diagrams, and flowcharts to outline and plan the application logic. I then used the rest of knowledge learned through my courses to apply code to those plans. For my Capstone ePortfolio project, I used the same knowledge and techniques to help me progress from a list of business requirements to a quality and valuable business software application. Without the knowledge and techniques learned throughout my courses pertaining to software design and engineering, I would not have been capable of creating a working application in a little over 6 weeks. <br/>
   <br/>
My “Data Structures and Algorithms” course taught me about data structures and algorithms. Specifically, I learned how data can be structured to suit an individual’s needs, and how algorithms can used to greatly impact performance. Most importantly, I learned how to develop them myself to suit my own programming needs and solve problem in an efficient manner. Using this knowledge, I have been able to develop algorithms and utilize data structures in various final projects, such as the weather station project, where I had to not only interpret conditions and act on them, but format and store data and then un- store data when starting the program back up. In my “Computation Graphics and Visualization” course I utilized many different algorithms to rotate and transpose visual shapes. Then, during my Capstone ePortfolio project, I utilized this knowledge to develop algorithms to not only parse data, but transform and use it to find valuable information.<br/>
  <br/>
   Fundamentals of “Data Mining and Mobile Architect & Programming” taught me how to integrate databases into projects and develop interfaces to interact with the databases. In addition, I learned how important data types are and how to pick the ones appropriate for the problem. I was taught how critical data mining is becoming and how to utilize techniques to find valuable information contained within massive datasets. I used this knowledge in my “Mobile Architect & Programming” final project application utilizing an SQLite database. In the “Fundamentals of Data Mining” final project I analyzed a pretend dataset to investigate interesting patterns and find out useful information for a business. I applied all of this knowledge and experience in my Capstone ePortfolio project when I utilized an SQLite database on Android, and a MySQL database in a Linux server to store and manipulate information. I then used another program to extract the data and format it in a way that a Machine Learning algorithm could be applied and produce valuable business information. In the end, not only did I provide my company with a stable sat system, but valuable analysis techniques for future business interactions.<br/>
  <br/>
   During my “Secure Coding” course I learned about secure coding principles, best practices, and common security flaws. During the “Reverse Engineering” course I learned a lot about the assembly and C languages and how they are compiled into an executable. As a result, I was able to have a deeper understanding of the way security flaws come to be and how to stop them. I implemented this knowledge when I completed the Secure Coding final project which was to create a security audit of an insecure program. As I developed my Capstone ePortfolio project, I planned to implement the secure coding principles and best practices from day one. Using a CGI-bin program, I utilized the principle of least privilege to restrict the read, write, and execution of the program. In addition, I built checks for every input for the CGI program this way an attacker can’t simply write code into the POST and find weaknesses. Developing the Android application, I implemented the best practice of always checking user input to ensure it is the correct type. In my server database, I also guarded against SQL Injection by checking input and using parameterization in my statements.<br/>
<br/>
My sole artifact is a complete software solution to a previous business problem at my current place of employment. In creating it, I utilized every tool and scrap of knowledge I learned here at Southern New Hampshire University. My current place of employment had a problem with inaccurate data collection created by a system that wasn’t easily available to workers. As a result, workers would wait to enter their times all at one time, which would create discrepancies in certain automatically created data fields. This, in turn, led to another employee having to go through every employees’ times from the previous day and correct them every morning. Not only was this not the employee’s job, but it was unneeded labor time being incurred. Seeing the issue, I began to interact with the stakeholders (my boss and coworkers) to come up with a solution to the problem. The result was the decision to make an Android (the predominate cellular device) application to easily scan manufacturing documents and accurately record times for the employees. In addition, I would parse the descriptions of the manufactured part and using the labor time required to create the part use a machine learning algorithm to build a model to in the future predict labor times based off of part features. I used a collaborative environment with my boss and coworkers to identify the business requirements for the Software solution. I accomplished this by using version control software and github to allow the stake holders to view my work and offer solutions or recommendations. While this was mainly a solo project, I still benefited from their advice. At first glance, a software solution may seem simple to these problems, but as you see in the following enhancements, it was anything but simple. However, using the knowledge gained from the courses here at Southern New Hampshire University, and by using problem-solving techniques, I never ran into a problem I could not solve.

## The following links go to the repositories referenced.
##### [Android Application](https://github.com/diamondadam/CustomTool)
##### [Server File](https://github.com/diamondadam/DataCollectionServer)
##### [Data Analysis Program](https://github.com/diamondadam/DataAnalysis)
